.. _authentication-howto:

How to use authentication?
==========================

There are two methods to access protected data in the dataset:
:strong:`Bearer Token Login` and :strong:`OAuth2 authentication`. Both
authentication methods can be used within a browser or from the
command line, with only slight differences.

.. hint:: The Open Data provided by the |odh| can be freely accessed,
   authentication is meant only for internal use.

In this section we show how to use authentication within the |odh|\,
provided that you own an username and a password to access the closed
data in the datasets.
	  
To obtain the credentials, please send an email to |contact|\. This action
will open a support ticket that will be taken in charge by the
Customer Support Team.


Bearer Token Login
------------------

Bearer token login is used to access the :ref:`tourism-datasets`;
description of the procedure is available at :ref:`data-access-tourismAPI`.

OAuth2 authentication
---------------------

OAuth2 authentication can be used in all the :ref:`mobility-datasets`
that are marked with the |auth| badge, so pick one dataset and go to
its swagger interface, whose URL is provided together with the
information of the dataset.

.. note:: As of |today|\, authentication is not yet publicly
   available, so the following guidelines can not yet be put in
   practice.

.. rubric:: If you use a browser
	  
Make sure you have obtained a valid username and password, then open
the :command:`/rest/refresh-token` method and write you username and
password in the two :strong:`user` and :strong:`pw` fields,
respectively, as shown in :numref:`token-request`. 

.. _token-request:
.. figure:: /images/token-request.png
   :scale: 33%
   :align: center

   Request a new OAuth2 token.

If your credentials are valid, you will receive a new token, otherwise
the response will be a :strong:`401 Unauthorized` error message.

The token you received can be used in any of the API's methods that
require authorisation. A sample call is shown in figure
:numref:`oauth-success`. Note the syntax of the :file:`Autorization`
parameter: You must use prefix the authentication token with the
:strong:`Bearer` string, followed by an empty space, then by the
token.

.. _oauth-success:
.. figure:: /images/emobility-200.png
   :scale: 33%
   :align: center

   A successful call to a method requiring authentication.

In case you do not respect the Authorization+space+token sequence, use
additional separators in the sequence (like :numref:`oauth-failure`
shows), or use an invalid token, you will receive an :strong:`401 -
Unauthorized` HTTP response.

.. _oauth-failure:

.. figure:: /images/emobility-401.png
   :scale: 33%
   :align: center

   A failed call to a method requiring authentication.

.. rubric:: If you use the Command Line Interface.

Open a shell on your workstation and use a tool like :command:`curl`
or :command:`wget`, with the appropriate options:

.. option:: -X

   Specify the request method (GET)

.. option:: --header, -H

   Add extra header information to be included in the request.

Note that the :option:`--header` option is used twice: The first to
receive the answer in :strong:`text/html` format, the second to
provide the credentials required to access protected content.

API calls can be done using a tool like :command:`curl` or
:command:`wget`, with the same :option:`-X` and :option:`--header`
option used twice: The first to require the format of the response,
the second to provide the credentials, like for example:

.. code:: bash

   ~$ curl -X GET "https://bdp-test-env.b7twwguhyj.example.com/emobility/rest/get-records?station=83&name=CP1-Tignale&seconds=50" --header "Accept: */*" --header 'Authorization: Bearer <token>'

Make sure to replace the <token> with the actual token you received.
