.. _getting-involved:

Getting Involved
=================

.. _odh-actors:

.. figure:: /images/actors.png
   :scale: 60%
   :align: left

   Relations between the actors involved in the |odh|\.

The |odh| team welcomes new partners and user to join the project. For
this reason, a number of services are offered to help you getting in
touch with the project and support you in case you want to either
collaborate with the project or simply use the data made available.


The |odh| team envisioned different possibilities to join the project,
that are detailed in the remainder of this section, including--but not
limited to--reporting bugs in the API or errors in the API output,
making feature requests or suggestions for improvement, and even to
participate in the development or supply new data to be shared through
the |odh|\.

:numref:`odh-actors` shows at a glance the services offered by the
|odh| together with the various roles that potential users can play
within the |odh|\, according to their interest, expertise, skills, and
knowledge.

Data Sharing
   The |odh| team helps you in various activities: give
   :strong:`visibility` to your data, identify both :strong:`suitable,
   common formats`, processing algorithms and licenses to share your
   data, and to use popular technologies known by application
   developers.

   This service is suitable for :ref:`Data Providers
   <data-provider-def>`.

Data Access
   The |odh| team supports software development companies to
   :strong:`access to real-time data`, by making available to everyone
   a stable :strong:`communication channel` which uses a
   :strong:`machine-readable` protocol and an :strong:`Open Data
   license`, to ensure everybody can easily find all the available
   data.

   This service is most suitable for :ref:`Data Consumers
   <data-consumer-def>` and App developers.

Demo App Development
   The |odh| team collaborates with companies to design and develop
   Proof of Concepts and demo software, released under an :ref:`Open
   Source License <odh-license>` that use data offered by the
   |odh|\. All the software can then either be used as-is--to show and
   test its potentials, or as a guideline and inspiration to develop
   new digital products.

   This service is suitable for :ref:`Data Consumers
   <data-consumer-def>`, App developers, and companies interested in
   development built on top of the |odh|\.

Besides the tasks that you find below, you can also help the Open Data
Hub project grow and improve by reporting bugs or asking for new
features, by following the directions presented in  :ref:`the dedicated
section below <bug-reports>`.

.. _how-to-access:

How to access
-------------

This section gives an overview of which tasks you can play when
collaborating with the |odh| project.

Depending on your interest on the Open Data Hub Project, we welcome
your participation to the project in one of the roles that we have
envisioned: :strong:`User (Data Consumer)`, :strong:`App developer`,
:strong:`Core Hacker`, and :strong:`Data Provider`. Below you can find
out a list of tasks that belong to each of these roles; we believe
that this list can help you understand which type of contribution you
can give to the |odh| project!

.. grid::
   :gutter: 1

   .. grid-item::
      :columns: 6

      .. dropdown:: As a :strong:`User` I can...

         .. include:: /includes/user.rst

   .. grid-item::
      :columns: 6

      .. dropdown:: As an :strong:`App Developer` I can...

         .. include:: /includes/appdevel.rst

   .. grid-item::
      :columns: 6

      .. dropdown:: As a :strong:`Open Data Hub Core Hacker` I can...

         .. include:: /includes/corehacker.rest

   .. grid-item::
      :columns: 6

      .. dropdown:: As a :strong:`Data Provider` I can....

         .. include:: /includes/dataproviders.rst


.. _bug-reports:

Bug reporting and feature requests
----------------------------------

.. include:: /includes/bugrepo.rst
